++ KDE组织中的软件

Development

[edit]Software Development
Cervisia - CVS Frontend
KAppTemplate - KDE Template Generator
KBugBuster - KDE Bug Management
KCachegrind - Profiler Frontend
KDbg - An graphical front-end for the GNU Debugger.
KDESvn - Graphical Subversion client.
KDevelop - Integrated development environment for multiple languages.
KDiff3 - Diff/Patch Frontend
Kommander - Dynamic Dialog Editor
Kompare - Diff/Patch Frontend
KUIViewer - Qt Designer UI File Viewer
Lokalize - Computer-aided translation system
Massif Visualizer - Visualizer for Valgrind Massif data files[2]
Umbrello - UML diagram application
See also: Kdesdk
[edit]Web Development
KImageMapEditor - HTML Image Map Editor
KLinkStatus - Link Checker
KXSLDbg - XSLT Debugger
Quanta Plus - IDE for XML-based languages
See also: Kdewebdev
[edit]Education

blinKen - computerised version of the game, Simon Says.
Cantor -worksheet view to other Free Software Math packages. GUI frontend to Sage, Maxima, R and KAlgebra .
KAlgebra - A mathematical calculator based content markup MathML language
Kalzium - Displays information about the periodic table of elements.
Kanagram - customizable anagram game.
KBruch - Program for generating tasks with vulgar fractions.
KGeography - a geography learning program.
KHangMan - classic hangman game.
Kig - Program for exploring geometric constructions.
Kiten - Japanese reference/learning tool.
KLettres - Helps to learn the alphabet and then to read some syllables in different languages.
KmPlot - Mathematical function plotter.
KTouch - Program for learning touch typing.
KTurtle - Educational programming environment using turtle graphics.
KStars - Planetarium program.
KWordQuiz
Marble - geographical map program
Parley - A vocabulary trainer based on the Leitner system
Step - An interactive physics simulator
See also: KDE Education Project
[edit]Science
Cirkuit - An application to generate publication-ready figures[3]
KBibTeX - An application to manage bibliography databases in the BibTeX format
Semantik - A mindmapping-like tool for document generation[4][5]
Kst, a plotting and data viewing program.
RKWard - An easy to use, transparent frontend to R.
[edit]Games

Bomber - Arcade Bombing Game
Bovo - Five-in-a-row Board Game
Granatier - Bomberman clone
Kajongg
Kapman - Pac-Man Clone
KAtomic - A clone of the early 1990s commercial game Atomix
KBattleship - Battleship for KDE
KBlackbox - Black-box logic game. Shoot rays into a black box to find some balls.
KBlocks - A Tetris clone
KBounce - A JezzBall clone for KDE
KBreakout - A Breakout type game
KDiamond - A Bejeweled type game
KFourInLine - Four-in-a-row Board Game
KGoldrunner - Hunt Gold, Dodge Enemies and Solve Puzzles
Kigo - A Go Board Game
Kiriki - A Yahtzee game
KJumpingCube - A board game where players make boxes change color and try to succeed in taking over the board
KLines - A clone of Lines
KMahjongg- Mahjong solitaire
KMines - Minesweeper game
KNetWalk - A puzzle game. The player must arrange sections of wire to connect the computers.
Knights - Chess board program[6]
Kolf - Golf game
Kollision - A game of dexterity
Konquest - Galactic Strategy Game
KPatience - Patience Card Game
KReversi - Othello/Reversi game
KSame
KShisen
KsirK
KSpaceDuel
KSquares
KSudoku
KTron
KTuberling
Kubrick
LsKat
Palapeli
See also: Kdegames
[edit]Toys
AMOR - Amusing Misuse Of Resources. Desktop creature.
KTeaTime - Tea cooking timer.
KTux
KWeather
[edit]Graphics

DigiKam - Digital photo management
Gwenview - Image viewer
Karbon14 - Scalable Graphics
KColorChooser - Color Chooser
KColorEdit - KDE Color Palette Editor
KFax - Fax Viewer
KGrab - Screen Grabbing Program
KGraphViewer - A Graphviz dot graph viewer
KIconEdit - Icon Editor
Kolourpaint - Small bitmap graphics editor (Very similar to MSPaint)
Konstruktor - LEGO CAD[7]
KPhotoAlbum - Digital Photo and Image Manager
KPovModeler - Modeling and composition program for creating POV-Ray scenes
Krita - Digital painting and illustration suite
KRuler - Screen Ruler
KSnapshot - Screenshot tool
Kuickshow - Image viewer
Okular - Universal document viewer
Skanlite - Image Scanning Application
See also: Kdegraphics
[edit]Internet

Aki - a IRC Client[8]
Akregator - RSS Feed reader
Arora - Web browser
Blogilo - A KDE Blogging Client[9]
ChoqoK - Microblogging application
KFTPGrabber - Graphical FTP client
KGet - Download manager
KMail - Email client
KMess - Instant messaging[10]
KMLDonkey - A graphical frontend for MLDonkey
KNemo - Network Monitor
KNetworkManager - A GUI for NetworkManager and supports both wired and wireless devices
KNode - Usenet newsreader
Konqueror - File manager and web browser
Konversation - Dedicated IRC client
Kopete - Instant messaging
KPPP - Internet Dial-Up Tool
KRDC - Remote Desktop Client
KTorrent - BitTorrent client
KVIrc - a graphical IRC client
KVpnc - A GUI for various Virtual Private Network (VPN) clients
Kwlan - Wireless Lan Manager
ownCloud - An open personal cloud[11]
Quassel IRC
Rekonq - Lean web browser based on Webkit
Smb4k - SMB/CIFS share browser.
See also: Kdenetwork
[edit]Multimedia

Amarok - Audio player and music manager with numerous integrated features
Audex - An easy to use audio CD ripping application
Bangarang - A media player for KDE SC 4[12]
Clementine - A music player based on Amarok
Dragon Player - A simple and usability-focused multimedia player (formerly known as Codeine)
JuK - Jukebox and music manager
K3b - CD and DVD burning application
k3bISO - ISO manager for KDE
K9Copy - A DVD authoring program, similar to DVD Shrink
Kaffeine - Multimedia player
Kamoso - an application to take pictures and videos from webcam[13]
KAudioCreator - CD ripping and encoding[14]
Kdenlive - Video editor
Kid3 - An MP3, Ogg/Vorbis and FLAC tag editor[15]
KMediaFactory - A template based DVD authoring tool[16]
KMid - MIDI and karaoke file (*.kar) player[17]
KMix - Sound Mixer
KMPlayer - Video player plugin for Konqueror
KoverArtist - a program for the fast creation of covers for cd/DVD cases and boxes.[18]
KPlayer - Multimedia player and library
KRadio - an internet and AM/FM radio application[19]
KsCD - CD Player
Kubeplayer - A video player dedicated to play online videos.[20]
RecordItNow - Record desktop[21]
Rosegarden - a digital audio workstation program
soundKonverter - a frontend to various audio converters
See also: Kdemultimedia
[edit]Office

Flow - Flowchart & Diagram Editing
KEuroCalc - A currency converter and calculator
Kexi - Integrated Environment for Managing Data
Kile - integrated LaTeX environment
KMyMoney - Personal finance manager
Kraft - Document creation for Small Businesses[22]
Skrooge - Personal finances manager for KDE SC 4[23]
Plan - Powerful project management tool
Stage - Presentation application
LabPlot - A data plotting and analysis tool
LemonPOS - A point of sales application for small and mid-size business[24]
Calligra Sheets - Spreadsheet
Tellico - collection organizer
Words - Word processor
See also: Calligra Suite
[edit]Personal Information Management
KAddressBook - Contact Manager
Kontact - Personal information manager and groupware
KonsoleKalendar - an application to administer a calendar
KOrganizer - Calendar and scheduling
See also: KDE Personal Information Management
[edit]System

Dolphin - File manager
Filelight - Shows how the disk space is being used, drawing it as a set of concentric pie-charts
KAppfinder - Menu Updating Tool
katimon - an unofficial ATI graphics card temperature monitor
KBluetooth - Bluetooth connections.
KCron - An application for scheduling programs to run in the background using cron
KDE Partition Manager - Partition editor
KDE System Guard - Enhanced task manager and system monitor
KDM - Login manager
KDiskFree - Disk space information
KDirStat - Graphical disk usage utility
Kinfocenter - Information about your computer
Konsole - Terminal emulator
Krfb - Desktop Sharing
Krusader
KPackageKit - Package Manager with support for several formats (e.g. .deb, rpm)
KSystemLog - System Log Viewer
KUser - User Manager
KWallet - Secure password manager
Printer Applet - System tray icon for managing print jobs
System Settings
Yakuake - Quake-style terminal emulator
See also: kdeadmin
[edit]Utilities

Ark - Archiving tool
BasKet Note Pads - Advanced multi-purpose note-taking application
KAlarm - Personal Alarm Scheduler
Kate - Advanced Text editor for programmers
KBarcode4-light - A simple barcode generator
KCalc - Calculator
KCharSelect - Character tool
KFileReplace - Search & Replace Tool
KFind - Find Files/Folders
KFloppy - Floppy Formatter
KGPG - Graphical frontend for GnuPG
Kjots - Simple tool for taking notes
Kleopatra - Certificate Manager and Unified Crypto GUI
KNotes - Popup Notes
KRename - Batch renaming of files
KRecipes - Cooking Book
KRemoteControl - Remote Controls
Krusader - A twin panel file manager
KSaoLaJi - Advanced System Cleaner[25]
KTimer - Countdown Launcher
KTimeTracker - Personal Time Tracker
KWrite - Text editor
Okteta - Hex Editor
RSIBreak - Makes sure you rest now and then
SuperKaramba - Desktop applets program.
Sweeper - System Cleaner
See also: Kdeutils
[edit]Accessibility
KMag - Screen Magnifier
KMouseTool - Automatic Mouse Click
KMouth - Speech Synthesizer Frontend
Jovie - KDE Text To Speech Daemon
See also: KDE Accessibility Project
[edit]Discontinued

Apollon
KFoulEggs - Puyo Puyo game
Klickety - Puzzle game
KSirtet - Tetris game
KGhostView - pdf/ps files viewer
KPDF - a PDF viewer
KView - Image viewer
ShowImg - Image viewer
KMyFirewall - Firewall configuration frontend
KNetLoad - Network load graph viewer
KNC - a graphical orthodox file manager
ARts Builder - Application for building custom mixers, synthesizers, etc.
kdetv - TV viewer
KSubtile - Subtitle editor
Noatun - Multimedia player
TaskJuggler - Powerful project management tool
KDissert - mindmapping-like application to aid in creating general purpose documents
KNoda - Integrated Environment for Managing Data
KMobileTools - Mobile Phones manager
KDE Control Center - Centralised system configuration tool
KlamAV - ClamAV anti virus for KDE
KWorldClock - Displays the time anywhere on earth.
Kodo - Measure how far you move your mouse.
KHexEdit - A Hex Editor
Kooka - Scanner utility
Ktnef - A utility for opening "winmail.dat" attachments generated by Microsoft Outlook
KBarcode - barcode and label printing tool
KXML Editor - XML editor
KDict - Advanced graphical client for the DICT protocol.
KNetStats - Network device monitor.
KLogWatch - Netfilter log file monitor.
Knmap - KDE frontend to nmap.
KEdit - A simple text editor with few features, similar to Windows' Notepad
KLibido - a news client
KLAid - Study tool that pops up flashcards while you're using the PC.
Konjue - Tool to conjugate and deconjugate French verbs.
Kuake - a terminal emulator
Komposé, a fullscreen task switcher.
Katapult, a free application launcher.
KTechlab, an IDE for electronic and PIC microcontroller circuit design and simulation.
KEduca, a educational software
Mailody, an e-mail client
KXDocker, an application launcher.
KBFX, an application launcher.
QtParted - Partiton editor
KVerbos - Application specially designed to study Spanish verb forms.
This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it.